- [Instructor] The whole concept
of managing Kubernetes operations
is based on a well-documented pattern
within the Kubernetes documentation
called the operator pattern.
So what is a Kubernetes operator at its core?
Well, Kubernetes documentations gives us some key points.
First and foremost, it is a software extension
of Kubernetes itself.
This means you are actually extending
the rich Kubernetes API,
which is a powerful proposition
since you already know how to interact
with the Kubernetes API through things like kubectl.
Most of this interaction with the human
is through custom resource definitions or CRDs.
You can use these extensions
to manage applications or components
of the applications or the platform itself.
And all of this is accomplished based
on the common principles of Kubernetes.
More specifically, what is called the control loop.
So the Kubernetes documentation has a lot
of potential use cases
for the operator pattern.
And I want to share some thoughts
on some of the ones that I have seen or used operators for.
Probably the single most used use case,
at least in my experience of operators is deployments.
Many times, tools like Helm work great
but eventually, you get tired
of typing helm install multiple times.
And you keep doing it over and over for every single cluster
throughout your deployment.
Operators can assist in more than one way.
You can wrap all of your charts behind an operator,
and use it to manage the entire state
of your deployments.
You can also build environments much quicker,
especially when building out sandboxes
through the use of an operator that wraps Helm,
because oftentimes, your common components exist
in all of your clusters,
things like log aggregation and metrics, for example.
The one that I get most excited about to be honest,
and what we will use in this course
is the ability to bring services to your applications.
Say you need a database provisioning
or disk or caching or something,
anything that you can think of
but you can do it by utilizing the operator pattern
so that you can specify a CR in your deployment
that your operator will use to configure a hook
to the service.
This is a very powerful proposition
for large distributed systems.
Think about the fact that you may rely on cloud resources.
Your application, as it's deployed,
needs that cloud resource.
By building an operator to provision that resource,
you can then put your CR in your deployment
so that you will get it.
Chaos, and we all love it.
In an operator, the chaos pattern is great
and it's an easy way to do it
because you can deploy a chaos agent
from your deployment itself
through the use of an operator.
Now, first of all, if you aren't using some chaos
and don't understand why I'm all excited,
you're really not testing the resilience
of your deployments
but more than that, you can leverage operators
to do this chaos so you don't have to do it
through manual intervention.
And what happens is these chaos operators
will randomly take down pods
throughout your entire deployment
to make sure that your system is fault tolerant
and this is especially important
in large distributed systems.
And finally, let's talk about upgrades.
Upgrading a single deployment is usually pretty easy
but we all know that it doesn't always work the way
that you want it to.
Operators can help you maintain
and upgrade your system components,
as well as applications to get the most out
of your time when doing manual operators
by making them automated.
And that really is the point.
Write some code instead of doing
the same work multiple times.
There are dedicated sets of tools
for building operators themselves.
Their purpose is to abstract as much of Kubernetes away
and instead, giving you an easy entry point
to extending Kubernetes.
Now, Kubebuilder's probably the most popular
and is one of the most low-level toolkits,
again at least in my opinion.
It leverages Go, like Kubernetes goes,
to build these operators.
And this is the toolkit that we're going to use in this course.
The Operator Framework, backed by Red Hat
is an operator toolkit
that leverages Helm, Ansible or Go
to build operators.
It is very popular and in many use cases,
it's easier to use but in my opinion,
the additional abstractions it takes less value
from a learning context but be sure to look at it
if you are building a production operator
and many times, this is the one I leverage in production
because it adds an easier path forward.
Juju is an operator framework based on Charmed Operator SDK
and a lifecycle manager.
It has a lot of scaffolding
that aids in standard deployment practices,
especially around operators themselves.
KubeOps is an operator framework
for .NET-based teams
that want to keep the language consistent
with their development languages.
So if you're a C# shop, check out KubeOps.